Hello and welcome to an introduction to Game Physics.
My name is Samuel Asher Rivello.
My mission in my career is to educate and entertain with interactive technology.
I'm a unity certified developer with over 20 years of game development experience.
In the last eight years, I've focused specifically on unity, shipping unity games for PC, Xbox,
PlayStation and more.
Typically on projects, I'm a unity game developer or unity tools developer, and I'm available for
remote contract hire.
First of all, physics is fun.
Making games with physics is fun and playing them is fun too.
The gameplay mechanics are experimental, emergent, even educational.
Some popular examples of physics based games are Angry Birds.
Cut the rope trials and marble it up.
Let's take a look at the course overview.
In Section one, Intro to Physics.
We'll look at the benefits of creating physics based games.
We'll look at the three major concerns of any physics system, and we'll review Unity's physics system
and project setup.
In Section two, we'll look at Unity's two physics components.
We'll start with the very important rigid body, 2D and Collider 2D, and we'll move on to advanced
topics, 2D effectors and 2D joints.
We'll even look at a project that's in public beta called Unity Sprite Sheet.
In section three, we'll look at Unity's three D physics components.
First, we'll review the core principles of three D, and then we'll move on to physic material, ragdoll
and train.
In section four, we'll dive deep into Unity C sharp physics programming.
We'll handle physics events such as collisions and triggers.
We'll add physics forces to move our objects around, and we'll look at the vital properties and functions
we need for our physics.
We'll even get into physics debugging.
So if a problem arises in our code, we know how to solve it.
In section five, we'll create a project from scratch using two D something like Angry Birds.
We'll create projectile motion using our input, and we'll populate the world with obstacles that collide
and destruct.
In Section six will create a project from scratch using three D, something like the 1980s classic game
Marble Madness.
We'll create a complete three D game.
We'll use physics forces to move our character around and we'll populate the world with rigid body obstacles.
In section seven, we'll look at some advanced topics, best practices with physics and how to optimize
our projects, and then we'll apply what we've learned to real world examples.
We'll even look at the data oriented technology stack or dots and the future of unity physics.
Prerequisites for this course.
You'll need a computer, of course.
Running windows or Mac.
You'll need a unity editor and a code text editor.
The free personal edition of Unity comes with both some basic skills of being required here.
Beginning programming, knowledge of any language, and even a dozen hours or so specifically with unity
would be very helpful.
But we'll cover those basics and bring your passion.
Bring a love of video games and a curiosity to learn something new.
Goals of this course.
Have fun with physics.
Get an in-depth understanding of the physics system and bring it all together to create 2D and 3D games
from scratch.
You also have a chance to grasp some of the key advanced topics and understand more about the future
of unity physics.
So let's get started.